.\" Copyright (c) 2015 Michael Gmelin <freebsd@grem.de>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD: $
.\"
.Dd January 4, 2015
.Dt ISL 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm isl
.Nd Intersil(TM) I2C ISL29018 sensor driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
To compile this driver into the kernel, place the following lines into
your kernel configuration file:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Cd "device isl"
.Cd "device ig4"
.Cd "device smbus"
.Ed
.Pp
Alternatively, to load the driver as a module at boot time, place the following line in
.Xr loader.conf 5 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
isl_load="YES"
ig4_load="YES"
.Ed
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides access to sensor data provided by the Intersil(TM) I2C
ISL29018 Digital Ambient Light Sensor and Proximity Sensor with Interrupt
Function. Functionality is basic and provided over the
.Xr sysctl 8
interface.
.Sh SYSCTL VARIABLES
The following
.Xr sysctl 8
variables are available:
.Bl -tag -width ".Va dev.isl.X.resolution"
.It Va dev.isl.X.als
Current ALS (Ambient Light Sensor) readout.
.It Va dev.isl.X.ir
Current IR (InfraRed) sensor readout.
.It Va dev.isl.X.prox
Current proximity sensor readout.
.It Va dev.isl.X.resolution
Current sensor resolution.
.It Va dev.isl.X.range
Current sensor range.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ig4 4 ,
.Xr smbus 4
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
The
.Nm
driver was written by
.An Michael Gmelin Aq Mt freebsd@grem.de .
.Pp
This manual page was written by
.An Michael Gmelin Aq Mt freebsd@grem.de .
